---
title: OpenTTD 1.12.0-beta1
author: TrueBrain
---

Are you dreaming?
No, you are not!

Today I have the pleasure to announce to you that we just released the first beta of our 1.12 release series!

With our release on Steam not even six months ago we got some excellent feedback from the community on what to improve next.
One of the things that stood out: playing together in OpenTTD is considered very difficult for many users.

So, in 1.12 we address this issue.
Playing together is as easy as one of you starting a server, marking it either "Public" or "Invite-Only", and sharing the newly introduced invite-code with your friends.
They can join your server, just like that.
No setup needed on your side, no port-forwarding, nothing.

Sadly, to set expectations, no integration with Steam itself has been added.
Integrating with Steam as GPL-licenses software has challenges, which we haven't resolved yet.
But we hope you agree that this new multiplayer experience is the next best thing.

Next to this excellent new feature, a few other new things we introduced are:
* Brand new "Online Players" window to easier see who is in what company, etc.
* Maximum number of NewGRFs you can use in one game has been raised to 255.
* Our official Windows builds are now signed.
* Define refittability of default vehicles using cargo classes.
* Configurable subsidy duration, up to 5000 years.
* Press Ctrl to build diagonal rivers in Scenario Editor
* Many bug-fixes (over 50 of them), tweaks, changes, and other additions.

As ever, see the changelog for further details.
The usual titlegame competition will be announced on the forum shortly.
The theme for this version will be "winter", something to prepare for.

And no, this is not an April Fool's joke.

* [Download](https://www.openttd.org/downloads/openttd-releases/testing.html)
* [Changelog](https://cdn.openttd.org/openttd-releases/1.12.0-beta1/changelog.txt)
* [Bug tracker](https://github.com/OpenTTD/OpenTTD/issues)
