---
title: OpenTTD 14.0
author: TrueBrain
---

Welcome to 14.0!

OpenTTD's first release was in March of 2004.
Now twenty years later, we are proud to release 14.0.

And boy, what a release it is.
Do I dare to say: this has been the biggest release yet?

Sometimes people try to tell us OpenTTD is dead.
Well, 14.0 shows you it really isn't.
There are so many new goodies in 14.0, that I don't even know where to start!
Let's go over a few, just to get you a feel for what to expect when you launch OpenTTD 14.0.

<!-- more -->

## When one day isn't a day

It is now possible to make the calendar time walk slower, up to a point it is frozen.
This doesn't influence vehicle movement at all, nor the amount of goods transported, town growth etc.
But it does influence vehicle introduction date, inflation, and aging.

With this feature, we hope to enable different game-plays, where people want to have more time to build out their empire before vehicles expire, inflation gets too big, etc.

A brand new day!
For some a bit slower than others.

## Ship Pathfinder

The ship pathfinder got some great love.
It is now capable of directing ships over vast distances without the need for buoys.
In fact, one could say, you don't need buoys anymore at all.
The ships will still find their way!

Finally, no more "Ship is lost" non-sense.
This enables ship-only games.

## Social Platform integration

OpenTTD 14.0 allows better integration with Social Platforms.
This is totally optional, and has to be installed separately.
But once done, OpenTTD can talk to platforms like Steam, Discord and GOG Galaxy.

For now, the functionality is limited: friends can see you play OpenTTD, if you are in a server or not, and what kind of map you are playing.
For future versions we intend to expand on that, making more possible.
But, small steps.

It has to be noted that those plugins are not licensed under GPLv2, where OpenTTD otherwise is.
Instead, they are licensed under MIT, a much more flexible license.
It is still Open Source, and the code is still freely available.
But because it integrates with closed source SDKs of these platforms, we didn't want it integrated in OpenTTD itself.
As such, they are separate plugins, and you can decide whether you want to integrate with those platforms or not!

## New players experience

First of all, there is now a Help and Manuals button in-game, that helps you through the basic information of the game.
Bringing information closer to the user, and the game more accessible to everyone, has been a path we have been on for a while.

Second, we revised a lot of settings, what their default value should be.
Many settings have had their defaults changed, mostly towards enabling modern feature by default.

Hopefully this helps new players get into the game easier.

## Custom road stops

Support has been added for NewGRFs to add new types of road stops, just like with railway stations. 
We look forward to content authors creating all kinds of creative bus and lorry stations with this!

## Many GUI improvements

There has been a huge effort in making all our windows just a tiny bit better.
Fixing pixel-errors, moving things around a bit, fixing colouring issues.

But .. not less important, we now also have a built-in scalable font!
This means that scaling looks a lot better, especially for zoom levels like 1.5x.

All this to make things more the same and more pleasant to look at.
Hope you enjoy it!

## Rebranding of cheats

As people don't like using cheats in the game, it is now called sandbox!
Same thing, different name.

Hopefully that enables more people to play the game how they want to, without feeling punished for doing so.

## Survey support

We talked about it in an earlier earlier post: OpenTTD now has an opt-in survey tool.
Over time this will allow us and anybody else interested in improving the game to better understand how OpenTTD is played, so we can better anticipate what will be a hit or a miss.

You can, at any time, opt in or out from the survey.

## So much more ...

In total OpenTTD 14.0 comes with roughly 40 new features, over 500 bug-fixes, 200 changes, and many many code improvements.

It took us 2000 commits to get from 13.4 to 14.0, we touched 140,000 lines of code and removed 74,000 of them.
This was all done by over 60 contributors.

A great thank you to all who contributed, with code or by support; it is truly appreciated!
Up to another twenty years of OpenTTD development!


* [Download](https://www.openttd.org/downloads/openttd-releases/latest.html)
* [Changelog](https://cdn.openttd.org/openttd-releases/14.0/changelog.txt)
* [Bug tracker](https://github.com/OpenTTD/OpenTTD/issues)
